Cribbage Application Help

Menu bar Usage:

(1) To start a cribbage game simulation, select File | Start Simulator from the menu bar.
(2) To load a saved cribbage game simulation state, and start the cribbage game simulator engine from that state, select File | Load Simulation from the menu bar.
(3) To stop the cribbage game simulator engine, select File | End Simulator from the menu bar.
(4) To exit the Cribbage Application, select File | Exit from the menu bar.
(5) To view this help content, select Help | View Help... from the menu bar.
(6) To see information about the Cribbage Applicaton, select Help | About... from the menu bar.

While a cribbage game simulator is running:

(1) When the game requires input from the user, a text prompt for this input will be displayed in the Query Prompt widget.
(2) Typically the game simulator provides a menu of input choices to the user, and these choices will be displayed in the
    Query Response - Menu widget. Choose a response from the Choices menu button.
(3) If you are asked to provide a path for opening or saving a file, then a File Open Path of File Save Path dialog will be displayed to help you
    select a path. When you click the Save or Open button in the dialog, the text for the path you selected will be displayed in the Query
	Response Widget, and you can click the Enter button to send the path to the game simulator.
(4) If you send an incorrect response, then a User Query Error message box will be displayed. After you click the Ok button
	in the message box, the query from the game simulator will be repeated.	
(5) All textual output from the game simulator is displayed in the Simulation Output widget.

The Cribbage Board, Starter, Crib, <player 1 name> Hand, Play Pile, and Scores Info Widgets are all used to show output
from the game simulator in a more visual manner than simple text.

Cribbage Board Widget:

This Widget shows the pegging locations for both players, using a traditional cribbage board layout where there are two tracks with 62 holes for each track. Holes 0 and 62 are starting and finishing locations for the pegs. During game play, pegs are progressed from holes 1 to 60, then from 1 to 60 again, and then finishing at hole 62. Thus a score of 121 ends the game.

Starter Widget:

This Widget shows the starter card for the current deal.

Crib:

This Widget shows the cards in the Crib for each deal. They will only be face-up after the crib has been "shown" (that is, counted) at the end of each deal.

<Player 1 Name> Hand Widget:

This Widget shows the cards in the hand of player 1, the human player. As cards are placed in the crib or played during the deal, those cards are removed from the Hand Widget.

Play Pile Widget:

This Widget shows the played cards during each "Go round" of each deal. As cards are played by either player, they will appear in the Play Pile Widget. The title of the Play Pile Widget shows the current total played card count for the current "Go round".

Scores Info Widget:

This Widget shows information about scoring that is achieved during the play of each deal and when the hands of each player and the crib are shown (counted) at the end of each deal.

You should be able to play through a deal and a game without reading the content of the Simulation Output Widget.
However, the content in this Widget is not cleared at the end of each deal, so that you can use it to check back
on what happened earlier in a game. 